a template for deployment and that template can work for different environments such as testing, staging, and production. Azure Resource Manager provides security, auditing, and tagging features to help you manage your resources after deployment.

Benefits
Azure Resource Manager provides several benefits:

You can deploy, manage, and monitor all the resources for your solution as a group, rather than handling these resources individually.
You can repeatedly deploy your solution throughout the development lifecycle and have confidence your resources are deployed in a consistent state.
You can manage your infrastructure through declarative templates rather than scripts.
You can define the dependencies between resources so they're deployed in the correct order.
You can apply access control to all services in your resource group because Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) is natively integrated into the management platform.
You can apply tags to resources to logically organize all the resources in your subscription.
You can clarify your organization's billing by viewing costs for a group of resources sharing the same tag

Guidance
The following suggestions help you take full advantage of Azure Resource Manager when working with your solutions.

Define and deploy your infrastructure through the declarative syntax in Azure Resource Manager templates, rather than through imperative commands.
Define all deployment and configuration steps in the template. You should have no manual steps for setting up your solution.
Run imperative commands to manage your resources, such as to start or stop an app or machine.
Arrange resources with the same lifecycle in a resource group. Use tags for all other organizing of resources.

Review Azure resource terminology
Completed
100 XP
3 minutes
If you're new to Azure Resource Manager, there are some terms you might not be familiar with.

resource - A manageable item that is available through Azure. Some common resources are a virtual machine, storage account, web app, database, and virtual network, but there are many more.
resource group - A container that holds related resources for an Azure solution. The resource group can include all the resources for the solution, or only those resources that you want to manage as a group. You decide how you want to allocate resources to resource groups based on what makes the most sense for your organization.
resource provider - A service that supplies the resources you can deploy and manage through Resource Manager. Each resource provider offers operations for working with the resources that are deployed. Some common resource providers are Microsoft.Compute, which supplies the virtual machine resource, Microsoft.Storage, which supplies the storage account resource, and Microsoft.Web, which supplies resources related to web apps.
template - A JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) file that defines one or more resources to deploy to a resource group. It also defines the dependencies between the deployed resources. The template can be used to deploy the resources consistently and repeatedly.
declarative syntax - Syntax that lets you state "Here is what I intend to create" without having to write the sequence of programming commands to create it. The Resource Manager template is an example of declarative syntax. In the file, you define the properties for the infrastructure to deploy to Azure.
Resource providers
Each resource provider offers a set of resources and operations for working with an Azure service. For example, if you want to store keys and secrets, you work with the Microsoft.KeyVault resource provider. This resource provider offers a resource type called vaults for creating the key vault.

The name of a resource type is in the format: {resource-provider}/{resource-type}. For example, the key vault type is Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults.

Note
Before deploying your resources, you should gain an understanding of the available resource providers. Knowing the names of resource providers and resources helps you define resources you want to deploy to Azure. Also, you need to know the valid locations and API versions for each resource type

Resources can be deployed to any new or existing resource group

Deployments are incremental; if a resource group contains two web apps and you decide to deploy a third, the existing web apps will not be removed

Considerations
Resource Groups are at their simplest a logical collection of resources. There are a few rules for resource groups.

Resources can only exist in one resource group.
Resource Groups cannot be renamed.
Resource Groups can have resources of many different types (services).
Resource Groups can have resources from many different regions

For compliance reasons, you may need to ensure that your data is stored in a particular region

Note

By scoping permissions to a resource group, you can add/remove and modify resources easily without having to recreate assignments and scopes

A common concern with resources provisioned in Azure is the ease with which they can be deleted. An over-zealous or careless administrator can accidentally erase months of work with a few steps. Resource Manager locks allow organizations to put a structure in place that prevents the accidental deletion of resources in Azure.

You can associate the lock with a subscription, resource group, or resource.
Locks are inherited by child resources

Lock types
There are two types of resource locks.

Read-Only locks, which prevent any changes to the resource.
Delete locks, which prevent deletion.

Note
Only the Owner and User Access Administrator roles can create or delete management locks

to move resources to either a new subscription or a new resource group in the same subscription
When moving resources, both the source group and the target group are locked during the operation. Write and delete operations are blocked on the resource groups until the move completes. This lock means you can't add, update, or delete resources in the resource groups. Locks don't mean the resources aren't available. For example, if you move a virtual machine to a new resource group, an application can still access the virtual machine

Limitations
Before beginning this process be sure to read the Move operation support for resources page. This page details what resources can be moved between resources group, subscriptions, and regions

Note
Just because a service can be moved doesn’t mean there aren’t restrictions. For example, you can move a virtual network, but you must also move its dependent resources, like gateways

Template benefits
Templates improve consistency. Resource Manager templates provide a common language for you and others to describe your deployments. Regardless of the tool or SDK that you use to deploy the template, the structure, format, and expressions inside the template remain the same.
Templates help express complex deployments. Templates enable you to deploy multiple resources in the correct order. For example, you wouldn't want to deploy a virtual machine prior to creating an operating system (OS) disk or network interface. Resource Manager maps out each resource and its dependent resources, and creates dependent resources first. Dependency mapping helps ensure that the deployment is carried out in the correct order.
Templates reduce manual, error-prone tasks. Manually creating and connecting resources can be time consuming, and it's easy to make mistakes. Resource Manager ensures that the deployment happens the same way every time.
Templates are code. Templates express your requirements through code. Think of a template as a type of Infrastructure as Code that can be shared, tested, and versioned similar to any other piece of software. Also, because templates are code, you can create a "paper trail" that you can follow. The template code documents the deployment. Most users maintain their templates under some kind of revision control, such as GIT. When you change the template, its revision history also documents how the template (and your deployment) has evolved over time.
Templates promote reuse. Your template can contain parameters that are filled in when the template runs. A parameter can define a username or password, a domain name, and so on. Template parameters enable you to create multiple versions of your infrastructure, such as staging and production, while still using the exact same template.
Templates are linkable. You can link Resource Manager templates together to make the templates themselves modular. You can write small templates that each define a piece of a solution, and then combine them to create a complete system.
Templates simplify orchestration. You only need to deploy the template to deploy all of your resources. Normally this would take multiple operations

